well as we mentioned us National
Security adviser Jake Sullivan's in
Israel he's also going to be meeting
Palestinian Authority president mmod
abas in the coming hours going to bring
in Marwan bushard alzer's senior
political analyst so with regard to
Sullivan in Israel first of all he made
a phrase I'm I'm just looking at some of
the statements that he he came out with
uh in a press conference he said we we
agree that the fight against Hamas will
take months in phases now I'm quite
interested about the fact that he's put
in that line in phases what your
assessment of that are we seeing some
sort of agreement between Israel and the
US that the nature of the conflict will
change we actually we've been we've been
talking about that for two weeks here on
this
platform more than two weeks that in the
end of the day Israel cannot afford to
continue full-fledged war with more than
300,000 reservists in full-fledged gear
in Gaza indefinitely the Israeli economy
can't take it the public opinion cannot
take it the general world public opinion
cannot take it certainly the United
States wouldn't be able to support it
for that long so we all knew that
eventually this is going to come to an
end sooner or later rather than sooner
than later because yes we expected that
this will go to some kind of a low
intensity Warfare against Gaza meaning
in the end of the day once you destroy
or once you hit 40,000 I don't know I
lost track do you know 50,000 Targets in
Gaza bombed I've got it written down
somewhere but yeah we'll go with but I
mean you know tens of thousands of
Targets in this little Enclave when you
hit tens of thousands of targets such
little Enclave what is there more to hit
and in the end of the day you're
invading your tanks are moving forward
you're going to take more weeks to get
to RAF and then what yeah so at the end
of the day it's going to have to go to
another
phase what's pitiful in this is not that
we didn't expect it and that the
Israelis are not planning it what's
pitiful in all of this is how the World
Foremost super power of the past 70
years can be so degraded and and so
humiliated in front of a small Rogue
State called Israel the way America is
being humiliated by Israel the way
America's leaders are humiliated by the
Israel leaders I mean look at this just
we just said and and and Alan just
talked
about America laid a few red lines one
of them was no reoccupation of Gaza now
it's no reoccupation of Gaza on LA long
term long term I mean like it's been
occupied already for 56 years how long
of a term would it be another 56 years
you say they say something about you
know no no no to the ongoing
indiscriminate bombing right I mean
Biden finally came out and and said it
almost in a improvised way right
indiscriminate bombing which is a war
crime and then Sullivan comes to the
region and says now we understand he
went at length in a press conference to
justify why Israel is
killing tens of thousands of
Palestinians or reaching 100,000
Palestinian casualty or something or
killing thousands of Palestinian
children he was just on air out of
Jerusalem justifying israeli's war
crimes so how do you go from being quite
you know angry on the fact that you
America are boxed in Behind These war
crimes that are basically being fought
with your arms kind of upset about it in
a way right but then you continue to
just justify Israeli actions and defend
Israeli policies in public because every
time we talk about a
spat between the United States and
Israel this actually involves a lot of
Israel spitting and a lot of America's
safe fa safe face Saving right it is not
exactly a an you know an equal
relationship of some sort the
patron continues to follow the orders of
the client it's kind of a very strange
relations in international relations I
was just looking as you were talking
there just looking up some of the
figures that we were talking about the
ones we have and there are many 253,000
housing units partially damaged by the
ongoing bombing more than 52,000 housing
units completely demolished 194 mosques
partially damaged the numbers are
significant 275 uh schulls um damage
there as well destroyed including 73 out
out of service so the numbers are
significant in terms of the changing
nature of any Israeli uh military OCC
military operation from this moment on
to a degree the level of damage in terms
of the infrastructure has already been
done hasn't it I mean they they've
essentially flattened so much of Gaza
that one could imagine or would I be
right in thinking that it is fair to
assume that it is as you say in Israel's
interest now to start changing the
nature of the operation simply because
what they' they would say they have
achieved so far has has already been
done there's nothing left to to fight
over in that respect so it's easier for
them at this point to change the nature
of it it's interesting what you're
saying but I'm not going to put words in
your mouth I'm going to put words in my
mouth by saying that in
fact the objective of this war has been
to destroy Gaza not to destroy Hamas
only and this goes to again since we
talking about Sullivan Sullivan spent a
long time in the press conference
explaining why Israel had the right to
defend itself which it doesn't because
this is occupation but anyway and
explaining the whole idea of uh human
shield right that Hamas hides behind
human shield so can we now just once and
for all resolve this issue of the human
shield because everyone keeps talking
about it right so from day one from
October 8th right October 7 actually
into October 8 October 9 the three
leading men in Israel the president the
Prime Minister and the defense minister
said the following the president said
there are no innocent people in
Gaza all of them are
targets two the Prime Minister said we
are going to fight them like we fought
them in biblical times the amalik and
that we're not going to spare a man a
woman child or their animals and then
the defense minister
said these are human animals they're
going to get no food no
fuel no
electricity Collective punishment so
we've heard the three leading men in his
is saying that the population of Gaza
the population of Gaza are are the
target not just Hamas so the idea that
we are killing meaning Israel is killing
civilians because Hamas is using them
from human shield is a totally
discredited humbug because the Israelis
have on the
record the declared intention to punish
the people of Gaza so they are not human
shield they are the human target of the
Israel occupation and that's why when we
talk about 50,000 or 40,000 or 60,000
targets bombed meaning more bombing of
Gaza than we've seen the bombing of
British cities by the Germans in World
War II or more bombing of the German
cities by the Allied Forces in World War
II only in the spare of two months not
two years two months right that was not
against Hamas and the end result as
Sullivan and Biden and and certainly
Lloyd Austin knows the secretary defense
of the United States that most of the
hamas's forces are not are not are not
are not killed yet then Hamas is not
defeated yet even though Israel tries to
sell the images now of Hamas Fighters
surrendering and that they are getting
to them and you know it's just a
question of time now what we know is
despite the tens of thousands of
casualties a fraction I don't know 20% I
I'm not sure exactly 25% of Hamas
Fighters have been killed or or or
whatever so in fact this is goes to the
not just to the indiscriminate nature of
this war according to Biden but the
disproportionate nature of the use of
power meaning you're trying to get Hamas
presumably but you're actually killing
so much civilians but then once
again regardless of everything solivan
is saying right in the end of the day
there's a declared intention intention
which makes it genocide which makes this
war crime genocide by the three leading
men in Israel that we are going after
the population not just after Hamas
we're going after the the the social
environment of this movement not just of
the movement itself M thank you very
much indeed I know we're going to be
talking to you when Jake Solomon goes to
see Palestinian president but for now
thank you very much indeed